# Math-Portfolio
Math Project
Reflection Paragraphs:
  For my first MATLAB project I have assembled a conglomeration of some of my homework throughout the year. I have selected my projects deliberately to show the more complex methods and projects that I have worked through in MATLAB. These especially have included those projects that have to do with graphing in three-dimensions and those that take user inputs. I have included these because it is entirely possible and reasonable that I could have included projects that have to do simply with calculations, but these same multivariable calculations were applied in those more complex projects. Similarly, in the future, I plan to participate in economics and biomedical engineering research where graphing and showing relationships between variables is not only extremely useful but a necessity. Therefore, these projects should be seen as both building my foundation on MATLAB and adding to my expertise in MATLAB because while I was learning new functions and techniques in MATLAB, I was also reinforcing what I had learned in the previous item. 
  One particularly useful project was the Fourier series analysis that I used to show real time change in the graph. Although figuring out this method at first was a struggle, it turned out to be a technique that I utilized in my Lorentz Transformation project in MATLAB. Furthermore, the multiple 3-D graphing of functions and substituting values into functions was another technique that I used in some of my projects that took hours of research when I was first learning them. However, these hours of research proved to be useful in my Black-Scholes equation modeling, making my life a whole lot easier in the end.
  While economics is not commonly known as a science, it does seek to model and explain humans interactions which the laws of nature. Therefore, I see it fit that I could make a MATLAB program demonstrating one of the most commonly known formulae in finance – the Black-Scholes model. The Black-Scholes Model seeks to determine the call value of European stock options through various inputs such as the stock value, strike price, volatility of the stock, and the riskless rate of return in order to produce the value. Black-Scholes is used to determine formulaically the value of European stock options because the stock option can only be exercised on the date of expiration. Conversely, American stock options can be exercised at any time before the expiration date and so value cannot be found from a simple model. 
  Understanding the Black-Scholes model is key to understanding whether the stock option you are looking to buy is a just price through the many inputs. Because of the multitude of factors that can affect a stock options values, multiple equations with several inputs were used to find the value. Furthermore, an understanding of multi-variable calculus and a sound foundation in MATLAB is required to be able to produce an equation from the inputs supplied by the user and graph the equation in a three-dimensional plane with respect to three different variables. The three variables that I chose were the strike price, time to expiration, and the call value as the former two are values that often vary from call option to call option and the call value is what we are trying to eventually determine given our multiple inputs.
  For my freestyle project, I decided to explore some of the physics phenomena that I have explored outside of the physics classroom. Specifically, I have decided to explore the phenomena relativity that deals with reconciling the fact that the speed of light is the same in any frame of reference. This led me to the idea of Lorentz Transformations of moving objects in the x-direction. Lorentz Transformations shift one’s Minkowski spacetime axis to ensure that the speed of light will appear to be the same speed no matter how fast one is moving in spacetime. Learning the background behind Lorentz Transformations and coding both the live and input transformed axis display both were serious time commitments. Especially considering that the transformed axis shifted the slope and intercept of the lines, forcing me to formulate my code so that it made multiple lines that were parallel to each other across the bottom of the screen and drew the line at the right angle. Furthermore, writing the script for the live function was time consuming as well in that it not only required comfort with using the for loop to continuously recalculate equations for multiple lines in a single iteration but it also required comfort with creating live functions in MATLAB to show the transformation of the axis as the object approaches the speed of light.
